# football_project

### What is _football_project_?

If you like football at least as much as you like writing codes, analysing data and running simuations, you have probably been tempted to apply some mathematical
model on your favourite sport. That's what happened to me.

When I read the book [_'Soccermatics'_ by David Sumpter](https://soccermatics.medium.com/) I was shocked about how much data science and mathematics can be really
applied to football. Before that time, I had only heard about some strange (and not very reliable) models made from people trying to make some money with bets.
That book turned on my interest in data analysis about football.

So that's what _football_project_ is: just an attempt to make my own model and apply it on real data.

### What is _football_project_ in practice?

In practice, inside this repository you can find some data and codes which allow you to play a little bit with football events and to look for quantitative results
from a very complex system as football is.

The theoretical models and the explanations of the analysis carried out here can be found in the file 'report.pdf', where all the reasons behind this and the results are
reported; all the values and plots shown there are reproducible thanks to all the Python codes inside the repo. Editing them one could start from these codes to make
better and more extended projects. The codes are described more accurately in the file 'documentation.txt'.

The file 'plot_pitch.py' plots, indeed, the football pitch divided into 20 zones, which are used for all the models, simulations and analyses of this project. The file
'FCPython', taken from [fcpython](https://fcpython.com/visualisation/drawing-pitchmap-adding-lines-circles-matplotlib), containes some useful lines of code and is
included in the former.

In the folder 'data' all the data udes for this project are stored, in form of .json files (except for 'events_Italy' which is zipped because of its large dimensions).

In the folders 'classification' and 'entropy_ratio', respectively, the Python files with functions and codes to build a machine learning classification procedure and
to apply a model called Entropy Ratio to real football data. The file 'functions.py' containes functions used for both the topics, thus a copy of it is present in each
folder.

In the folder 'images' all the plots generated by the codes are saved.

### How to run the codes

First of all, after cloning the respository, one needs to unzip the file 'events_Italy' in the folder 'data' in order to run the codes correctly.

The following packages are required:
* numpy
* math
* pandas
* json
* matplotlib
* pytest
* sklearn

At this point, one can just run the file 'classification.py' to make a classification between the passes made from Juventus and Napoli using a neural network, or the
file 'entropy_ratio.py' to see the results of the model applied to the dataset of italian teams.
Or, even better, modify the codes allowing them to do much more nice things.

### How to test the codes

To test the codes, one should just run the files 'classification_tests.py' and 'entropy_ratio_tests.py' and see what happens: if no errors occur and no output is
displayed everything is fine!
